<!-- title: Declarations -->
<!-- pageid: 1369 -->
<!-- revid: 6454 -->
<!-- timestamp: 2020-09-01T20:29:05Z -->
<!-- source: https://wohlsoft.ru/pgewiki/Declarations -->

Before you get into this tutorial, you should first have at least a basic understanding of the existence of Control Declarations. If you don’t, click [[TeaScript_Syntax#Control_Flow|this conveniently placed link]], which tells you all you need to know.

If you've read past that knowledge checkpoint, I will assume that you do, at least, somewhat understand how Control Declarations work, even if it is on a very basic level. Given that liberty, I will introduce you to

==Declarations==
A <code>declaration</code> is a line of code that, when ran, makes itself true. An example of a declaration would be:<syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
.x += 64
</syntaxhighlight>This <code>declaration</code> would, upon being ran, add 64 to the specified object's <code>x-axis</code> value. <code>Declarations</code> are the fundamental working grounds of all languages, and thus are very simple in nature.

===Examples===
<syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
.y = 64
</syntaxhighlight><syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
char(1).id = 1
</syntaxhighlight><syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
char(1).ysp = -5
</syntaxhighlight>

#Makes the specified object's <code>y-axis</code> value equal to 64.
#Makes player one Luigi.
#Makes player one's <code>y-axis</code> speed equal to negative five (so, moving upwards).

Now that you know how to <code>declare</code>, I bring you one of the very building blocks of all coding languages;

==If Statements==
The <code>if</code> statement is a very common statement; one that you can find in a vast majority of coding languages, and Teascript is no different. <code>If</code> statements are formatted as such:<syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
if 'condition
   'declaration
end if
</syntaxhighlight>This is a basic if statement, with one <code>condition</code> and one <code>declaration</code>. A <code>condition</code> is what's being checked, and a <code>declaration</code> is what will be done if the condition is met. Using this alone, you can make scripts that control players, npcs, and more.<syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
if sysval(coincount) > 50
   sysval(coincount) -= 50
end if
</syntaxhighlight>Here's an example of a functioning <code>if</code> statement. Line 1, <code>if sysval(coincount) > 50</code> first tells Teascript that you are using an <code>if</code> statement, via the use of <code>if</code>, then ''asks'' if the player's coin count is greater than 50. Next, if the <code>condition</code> is met, the language goes on to make the <code>declaration</code> true (in this case, it subtracts fifty coins from poor Mario). Whenever writing an <code>if</code> statement, you must ''first'' write the <code>condition</code> next to the <code>if</code>, and not the <code>statement</code>.

===Examples===
<syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
if gv(wind)=1
   char(1).x -= 1
end if
</syntaxhighlight><syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
if .health = 1
   char(1).xsp = char(1).xsp*-1
   .health = 2
end if
</syntaxhighlight><syntaxhighlight lang="vb" start="1">
if .ivala = 1
   .ivalb += 1
end if
</syntaxhighlight>

#Checks if the global variable <code>wind</code> is 1, and if so, makes player one move backwards a pixel.
#Checks if the specified object's <code>health</code> is one, and if so, forces player one to move backwards and sets <code>health</code> to two.
#Checks if <code>ivala</code> is 1, and if so, adds one to <code>ivalb</code>.

This is, on a basic level, how most scripters do things in Teascript. And given how you've just learned how to do it; welcome to the world of Teascripting.
[[Category:TeaScript.vbs]]